CUMULUS-2692 -- Initial procedure commit and migration update (#3023)
nasa/cumulus: CHANGELOG.md

### MIGRATION NOTES

- The changes introduced in CUMULUS-2962 will re-introduce a
  `files_granules_cumulus_id_index` on the `files` table in the RDS database.
  This index will be automatically created as part of the bootstrap lambda
  function *on deployment* of the `data-persistence` module.

>   *In cases where the index is already applied, this update have no effect*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  *In cases where the index is already applied, this update will have no effect*.
```

>   **Please Note**: In some cases where ingest is occurring at high volume levels and/or there are
>   record volumes in the files table of > 150M files records, the migration may
>   fail on deployment due to timing required to both acquire the table state needed for the
>   migration and time to create the index given the resources available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **Please Note**: In some cases where ingest is occurring at high volume levels and/or the
  files table has > 150M file records, the migration may
  fail on deployment due to timing required to both acquire the table state needed for the
  migration and time to create the index given the resources available.
```

  For reference a rx.5 large Aurora/RDS database

>   with no activity took roughly 6 minutes to create the index for a 300M file
>   table with no ingest, however timed out when the same migration was attempted
>   in production with possible activity on the table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  with *no activity* took roughly 6 minutes to create the index for a file table with 300M records and no active ingest, however timed out when the same migration was attempted
  in production with possible activity on the table.
```

   public     | files     | files_pkey              |            | CREATE UNIQUE INDEX files_pkey ON public.files USING btree (cumulus_id)
   public     | files     | files_bucket_key_unique |            | CREATE UNIQUE INDEX files_bucket_key_unique ON public.files USING btree (bucket, key)
  ```

  In this instance you should not see an `indexname` row with
  `files_granules_cumulus_id_index` as the value.     If you *do*, you should be
  clear to proceed with the installation.
  - Quiesce ingest

  Stop all ingest operations in Cumulus Core according to your operational
  procedures.    You should validate that it appears there are no active queries that
  appear to be inserting granules/files into the database as a secondary method
  of evaluating the database system state:

  ```text
  select pid, query, state, wait_event_type, wait_event from pg_stat_activity where state = 'active';
  ```

  If query rows are returned with a `query` value that involves the files table,
  make sure ingest is halted and no other granule-update activity is running on
  the system.

  Note: In rare instances if there are hung queries that are unable to resolve, it may be necessary to

>   manually use psql `Server Signaling Functions` `pg_cancel_backend` and/or

Author: Include doc link

  `pg_terminate_backend` if the migration will not complete in the next step.

  - Create the Index

  Run the following query to create the index.    Depending on the situation
  this may take many minutes to complete, and you will note your CPU load and
  disk I/O rates increase on your cluster:

  ```text

>   CREATE INDEX files_granule_cumulus_id_index ON files (granule_cumulus_id);

Reviewer: Is there any value in `IF NOT EXISTS` if they're running it manually? Maybe if they're running this by mistake and have already added the index?

Reviewer: I may have just missed this point in our convo 🤔

Author: If it *does* exist, it does something like: 

---
jk_tf4_db=> CREATE INDEX files_granule_cumulus_id_index ON files (granule_cumulus_id)                                                                                                                                     ;
ERROR:  relation "files_granule_cumulus_id_index" already exists
---

Which in the case of manual creation is probably.... useful?
